---
layout: post
title:  "Sep 6 @ INRIA"
author: "Hoeteck"
date:   2016-08-08 10:10:00
---

The third Paris Area Crypto Day will be held on 06.09.16 (Tue) at
INRIA.

* [Salle JL Lions](https://www.inria.fr/en/centre/paris/overview/how-to-reach-us), INRIA
* Please [register](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1q8oqAj31ODGjPV00q8bE6p4GMFHZgBXO6-V3p9Zc-No/) (free, lunch included). Deadline 01.09.2016

### Program

| 10:00&nbsp;-&nbsp;10:10 | Welcome
| 10:10 - 11:10 | [Vadim Lyubashevsky](#VL) Directions in Lattice Cryptography
| 11:30 - 12:00 | [Michele Minelli](#MM) FHE Circuit Privacy Almost For Free 
| 12:30 - 14:00 | [Virginie Lallemand](#VLa) Cryptanalysis of the FLIP Family of Stream Ciphers
| 12:30 - 14:30 | Lunch 
| 14:30 - 15:30 | [Christina Brzuska](#CB) Assumptions in Cryptography
| 15:30 - 16:00 | Coffee Break
| 16:00 - 16:30 | [Benoît Cogliati](#BC) EWCDM: An Efficient, Beyond-Birthday Secure, Nonce-Misuse Resistant MAC
| 16:30 - 17:00 | [Geoffroy Couteau](#GC) Encryption Switching Protocols

### Abstracts

**<a name="VL"></a>Directions in Lattice Cryptography**<br>
*[Vadim Lyubashevsky](http://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=zurich-VAD)* (IBM Zurich)

In the past 20 years, lattice cryptography went from a purely
theoretical research area to actually being implemented inside of
Google Chrome today.  I will describe the state-of-the-art results in
practical lattice cryptography and sketch out what I consider to be
interesting directions for further research.

**<a name="MM"></a>HE Circuit Privacy Almost For Free**<br>
*Michele Minelli* (ENS)

Circuit privacy is an important property for many applications of
fully homomorphic encryption. Prior approaches for achieving circuit
privacy rely on superpolynomial noise flooding or on bootstrapping. In
this work, we present a conceptually different approach to circuit
privacy based on a novel characterization of the noise
distribution. In particular, we show that a variant of the GSW FHE for
branching programs already achieves circuit privacy; this immediately
yields a circuit-private FHE for NC1 circuits under the standard LWE
assumption with polynomial modulus-to-noise ratio. Our analysis relies
on a variant of the discrete Gaussian leftover hash lemma which states
that $e^t G^{−1}(v)$ + small noise does not depend on $v$. We believe
that this result is of independent interest.

Joint work with Florian Bourse, Rafaël Del Pino and Hoeteck Wee

**<a name="VLa"></a>Cryptanalysis of the FLIP Family of Stream Ciphers**<br>
*Virginie Lallemand* (INRIA)

At Eurocrypt 2016, Méaux et al. proposed FLIP, a new family of stream
ciphers intended for use in Fully Homomorphic Encryption
systems. Unlike its competitors which either have a low initial noise
that grows at each successive encryption, or a high constant noise,
the FLIP family of ciphers achieves a low constant noise thanks to a
new construction called filter permutator. In this paper, we present
an attack on the early version of FLIP that exploits the structure of
the filter function and the constant internal state of the
cipher. Applying this attack to the two instantiations proposed by
Méaux et al. allows for a key recovery in $2^{54}$ basic operations
(resp. $2^{68}$), compared to the claimed security of $2^{80}$
(resp. $2^{128}$).

Joint work with Sébastien Duval and Yann Rotella

**<a name="CB"></a>Assumptions in Cryptography**<br>
*[Christina Brzuska](http://christinabrzuska.de/)* (TU Hamburg-Harburg)

**<a name="BC"></a>EWCDM: An Efficient, Beyond-Birthday Secure, Nonce-Misuse Resistant MAC**<br>
*Benoît Cogliati* (University of Versailles)

We propose a nonce-based MAC construction called EWCDM (*Encrypted
Wegman-Carter with Davies-Meyer*), based on an almost xor-universal
hash function and a block cipher, with the following properties: (i)
it is simple and efficient, requiring only two calls to the block
cipher, one of which can be carried out in parallel to the hash
function computation; (ii) it is provably secure beyond the birthday
bound when nonces are not reused; (iii) it provably retains security
up to the birthday bound in case of nonce misuse. Our construction is
a simple modification of the Encrypted Wegman-Carter construction,
which is known to achieve only (i) and (iii) when based on a block
cipher. Underlying our new construction is a new PRP-to-PRF conversion
method coined Encrypted Davies-Meyer, which turns a pair of secret
random permutations into a function which is provably
indistinguishable from a perfectly random function up to at least
$2^{2n/3}$ queries, where $n$ is the bit-length of the domain of the
permutations.

Joint work with Yannick Seurin

**<a name="GC"></a>Encryption Switching Protocols**<br>
*Geoffroy Couteau* (ENS)

We put forth a novel cryptographic primitive: encryption switching
protocol (ESP), allowing to switch between two encryption
schemes. Intuitively, this two-party protocol converts given
ciphertexts from one scheme into ciphertexts of the same messages in
the other scheme, for any polynomial number of switches, in any
direction. Although ESP is a special kind of two-party computation
protocol, it turns out that ESP implies general two-party computation
under natural conditions. In particular, our new paradigm is tailored
to the evaluation of functions over rings. Indeed, assuming the
compatibility of two additively and multiplicatively homomorphic
encryption schemes, switching ciphertexts makes it possible to
efficiently reconcile the two internal laws. Since no such pair of
schemes appeared in the literature, except for the non-interactive
case of fully homomorphic encryption which still remains prohibitive
in practice, we build the first ElGamal-like encryption scheme over
$(Z^n;\times)$ as a complement to the Paillier encryption scheme over $(Z^n;+)$,
where $n$ is a strong RSA modulus. Eventually, we also instantiate
secure ESP between the two schemes, in front of malicious
adversaries. Thanks to a pre-processing step, we manage to get an
online communication in terms of group elements which neither depends
on the security parameter nor on the modulus $n$. This makes use of a
new technique called refreshable twin-ciphertext pool that is of
independent interest.

Joint work with Thomas Peters and David Pointcheval
