---
layout: post
title:  "June 30 @ ENS"
author: "Hoeteck"
date:   2016-05-20 10:10:00
---

The second Paris Area Crypto Day will be held on 30.06.16 (Thur) at
ENS.

* [Amphi Rataud](https://www.di.ens.fr/AccesDI.html.fr), ENS
* Please [register](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1VkvweWTJN8s1s6CH_1PGq5NlDcNYGvpziEmRW-jkb1E/viewform) (free, lunch included). Deadline 27.06.16

### Program

| 9:50&nbsp;-&nbsp;10:00 | Welcome
| 10:00 - 11:00 | [Anne Canteaut](#AC) Algebraic Distinguishers against Symmetric Primitives
| 11:00 - 12:00 | [Leonid Reyzin](#LR) On Memory Hardness of SCrypt
| 12:00 - 14:00 | Lunch 
| 14:00 - 15:30 | [Victor Shoup](#VS) Hash Proof Systems, Old and New
| 15:30 - 16:00 | Coffee Break
| 16:00 - 17:00 | [Rafael Pass](#RP) Analysis of the Blockchain Protocol in Asynchronous Networks

**Organizers.** Michel Abdalla and Hoeteck Wee ([ENS](https://crypto.di.ens.fr/web2py))

**Acknowledgements.** ERC [CryptoCloud](http://www.di.ens.fr/~pointche/CryptoCloud/) and [aSCEND](http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/193658_en.html)


----------------

### Abstracts

**<a name="AC"></a>Algebraic Distinguishers against Symmetric Primitives**<br>
*Anne Canteaut, INRIA*

Higher-order differential attacks, introduced by Knudsen in 1994, are the first family of attacks against block ciphers which exploit some specific property of the polynomial representation of the cipher. Indeed, these attacks rely on the fact that, for all keys, the involved multivariate polynomial does not have maximal degree. This idea has then been generalized by several authors and has led to the notion of cube distinguishers, and more recently to the so-called division property. Both generalizations actually exploit the fact that some given monomials do not appear in the polynomials. In this talk, I will present some unified view of these attacks, and I will show how such algebraic properties propagate through the successive layers of iterated primitives.

Joint work with Christina Boura (Université de Versailles St Quentin)

**<a name="LR"></a>On Memory Hardness of SCrypt**<br>
*Leonid Reyzin, BU*

**<a name="VS"></a>Hash Proof Systems, Old and New**<br>
*Victor Shoup, NYU*

This talk will be an exposition on hash proof systems and
their applications. I will review the basic definitions,
constructions, and applications of hash proof systems, focusing on the
original application to chosen ciphertext secure public key
encryption, as well as more recent applications to password
authenticated key exchange.


**<a name="RP"></a>Analysis of the Blockchain Protocol in Asynchronous Networks**<br>
*Rafael Pass, Cornell*

Nakamoto’s famous blockchain protocol enables achieving consensus in a so-called *permissionless* setting—anyone can join (or leave) the protocol execution, and the protocol instructions do not depend on the identities of the players. His ingenious protocol prevents “sybil attacks” (where an adversary spawns any number of new players) by relying on computational puzzles (a.k.a. “moderately hard functions”) introduced by Dwork and Naor (Crypto’92).

Prior works that analyze the blockchain protocol either make the simplifying assumption that network channels are fully synchronous (i.e. messages are instantly delivered without delays) (Garay et al, Eurocrypt’15) or only consider specific attacks (Nakamoto’08; Sampolinsky and Zohar, FinancialCrypt’15); additionally, as far as we know, none of them deal with players joining or leaving the protocol.

We prove that the blockchain consensus mechanism satisfies a strong forms of consistency and liveness in an asynchronous network with adversarial delays that are a-priori bounded, within a formal model allowing for adaptive corruption and spawning of new players, assuming that the computational puzzle is modeled as a random oracle. (We complement this result by showing a simple attack against the blockchain protocol in a fully asynchronous setting, showing that the “puzzle-hardness” needs to be appropriately set as a function of the maximum network delay.)

As an independent contribution, we define an abstract notion of a blockchain protocol and identify appropriate security properties of such protocols; we prove that Nakamoto’s blockchain protocol satisfies them and that these properties are sufficient for typical applications. We finally show how to use our analysis to build *new* blockchain protocols that overcome some of the bottlenecks in Nakamoto’s original protocol.

The analysis of Nakamoto’s blockchain is based on joint work with Lior Seeman and abhi shelat, and new blockchain protocols are based on joint work with Elaine Shi.
No prior knowledge of Bitcoin or the blockchain will be assumed.


