---
layout: post
title:  "Nov 30 @ ENS"
author: "Hoeteck"
date:   2017-11-02 10:10:00
---

The sixth Paris Area Crypto Day will be held on 30.11.2017 (Thu) at
ENS.

* [Salle Celan](http://www.ens.fr/IMG/pdf/Plan_45ULM_RDC.pdf), ENS
* Please [register](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1S-31XgG6q7iFgNBcOhWh8nSJxij-_VivJfxv4bvscag/viewform) (free). Deadline 27.11.2016

### Program

| 13:30 - 14:30 | [Yuval Ishai](#YI) Secure Arithmetic Computation with Constant Computational Overhead
| 14:40 - 15:40 | [Jens Groth](#JG) Linear-Time Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Arithmetic Circuit Satisfiability
| 15:45&nbsp;-&nbsp;16:30 | Coffee & Snacks @ S16, ENS

### Abstracts

**<a name="YI"></a>Secure Arithmetic Computation with Constant Computational Overhead**<br>
*[Yuval Ishai](http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~yuvali/)* (Technion)

Motivated by the goal of efficient secure computations on sensitive
numerical data, we present a protocol for securely computing
arithmetic circuits that requires only a constant (amortized) number
of arithmetic operations per gate. This applies to the model of
security against passive (or "semi-honest") adversaries. Our protocol
is based on new cryptographic assumptions that can be viewed as
natural arithmetic analogues of well studied assumptions. Beyond the
asymptotic result, a key building block in our protocol can yield
concrete efficiency improvements for natural secure computation tasks.

Joint work with Benny Applebaum, Ivan Damgård, Michael Nielsen, and Lior Zichron

**<a name="JG"></a>Linear-Time Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Arithmetic Circuit Satisfiability**<br>
*[Jens Groth](http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/j.groth/)* (UCL)

We give computationally efficient zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge
for arithmetic circuit satisfiability over a large field. For a
circuit with N addition and multiplication gates, the prover only uses
O(N) multiplications and the verifier only uses O(N) additions in the
field. If the commitments we use are statistically binding, our
zero-knowledge proofs have unconditional soundness, while if the
commitments are statistically hiding we get computational soundness.
Our zero-knowledge proofs also have sub-linear communication if the
commitment scheme is compact.

Our construction proceeds in three steps. First, we give a
zero-knowledge proof for arithmetic circuit satisfiability in an ideal
linear commitment model where the prover may commit to secret vectors
of field elements, and the verifier can receive certified linear
combinations of those vectors. Second, we show that the ideal linear
commitment proof can be instantiated using error-correcting codes and
non-interactive commitments. Finally, by choosing efficient
instantiations of the primitives we obtain linear-time zero-knowledge
proofs.

