---
layout: post
title:  "Oct 25 @ ENS"
author: "Hoeteck"
date:   2018-08-01 10:10:00
---

The next Paris Area Crypto Day will be held on 25.10.2018 (Thu) at
ENS.

* Amphi Jaurès, ENS (29 rue d'Ulm, level B1)
* Please [register](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeop24A0asJvd73HvUH8zTDorfzPOpswA_pfcyVxc2zkctoMg/viewform) (free). Deadline 22.10.2018

### Tentative Program

| 10:00&nbsp;-&nbsp;10:05 | Welcome
| 10:05 - 11:05 | [Sarah Meiklejohn](#SM) Anonymity in Cryptocurrencies
| 11:15 - 11:45 | [Mary Maller](#MaMa) Updatable and Universal Common Reference Strings with Applications to zk-SNARKs
| 11:45 - 12:15 | [Julian Loss](#JL) The Algebraic Group Model and its Applications
| 12:15 - 14:15 | Lunch (not provided)
| 14:15 - 15:15 | [Ben Smith](#BS) 
| 15:15 - 15:45 | [Michele Minelli](#MiMi) Fast Homomorphic Evaluation of Deep Discretized Neural Networks
| 15:45 - 16:15 | Coffee Break
| 16:15 - 17:15 | [Adam O'Neill](#AO) Accessing Data While Preserving-Privacy

**Organizers.** Michel Abdalla and Hoeteck Wee ([ENS](https://crypto.di.ens.fr/web2py))

**Acknowledgements.** ERC [CryptoCloud](http://www.di.ens.fr/~pointche/CryptoCloud/) and [aSCEND](http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/193658_en.html)

<!--
**<a name="SM"></a>title**
*Sarah Meiklejohn* (UCL)

**<a name="BS"></a>title**
*Ben Smith* (INRIA/LIX)
-->


----------------

### Abstracts

**<a name="SM"></a>Anonymity in Cryptocurrencies**
*Sarah Meiklejohn* (UCL)

(abstract forthcoming)

**<a name="MaMa"></a>Updatable and Universal Common Reference Strings with Applications to zk-SNARKs**
*Mary Maller* (UCL)

By design, existing (pre-processing) zk-SNARKs embed a secret trapdoor in a relation-dependent common reference strings (CRS). The trapdoor is exploited by a (hypothetical) simulator to prove the scheme is zero knowledge, and the secret-dependent structure facilitates a linear-size CRS and linear-time prover computation. If known by a real party, however, the trapdoor can be used to subvert the security of the system. The structured CRS that makes zk-SNARKs practical also makes deploying zk-SNARKS problematic, as it is difficult to argue why the trapdoor would not be available to the entity responsible for generating the CRS. Moreover, for pre-processing zk-SNARKs a new trusted CRS needs to be computed every time the relation is changed.

In this paper, we address both issues by proposing a model where a number of users can update a universal CRS. The updatable CRS model guarantees security if at least one of the users updating the CRS is honest. We provide both a negative result, by showing that zk-SNARKs with private secret-dependent polynomials in the CRS cannot be updatable, and a positive result by constructing a zk-SNARK based on a CRS consisting only of secret-dependent monomials. The CRS is of quadratic size, is updatable, and is universal in the sense that it can be specialized into one or more relation-dependent CRS of linear size with linear-time prover computation.

**<a name="JL"></a>The Algebraic Group Model and its Applications**
*Julian Loss* (RUB)

One of the most important and successful tools for assessing hardness assumptions in cryptography is the Generic Group Model (GGM). Over the past two decades, numerous assumptions and protocols have been analyzed within this model. While a proof in the GGM can certainly provide some measure of confidence in an assumption, its scope is rather limited since it does not capture group-specific algorithms that make use of the representation of the group. 

To overcome this limitation, we propose the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), a model that lies in between the Standard Model and the GGM. It is the first restricted model of computation covering group-specific algorithms yet allowing to derive simple and meaningful security statements.  
To prove its usefulness, we show that several important assumptions, among them the Computational Diffie-Hellman, the Strong Diffie-Hellman, and the interactive LRSW assumptions, are equivalent to the Discrete Logarithm (DLog) assumption in the AGM. 
On the more practical side, we prove tight security reductions for two important schemes in the AGM to DLog or a variant thereof: the BLS signature scheme and Groth's zero-knowledge SNARK (EUROCRYPT 2016), which is the most efficient SNARK for which only a proof in the GGM was known.
Our proofs are quite simple and therefore less prone to subtle errors than those in the GGM.

Moreover, in combination with known lower bounds on the Discrete Logarithm assumption in the GGM, our results can be used to derive lower bounds for all the above-mentioned results in the GGM.

(Joint work with Georg Fuchsbauer and Eike Kiltz)

**<a name="MiMi"></a>Fast Homomorphic Evaluation of Deep Discretized Neural Networks**
*Michele Minelli* (ENS)

The rise of machine learning as a service multiplies scenarios where one faces a privacy dilemma: either sensitive user data must be revealed to the entity that evaluates the cognitive model (e.g., in the Cloud), or the model itself must be revealed to the user so that the evaluation can take place locally. Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) offers an elegant way to reconcile these conflicting interests in the Cloud-based scenario and also preserve non-interactivity. However, due to the inefficiency of existing FHE schemes, most applications prefer to use Somewhat Homomorphic Encryption (SHE), where the complexity of the computation to be performed has to be known in advance, and the efficiency of the scheme depends on this global complexity.

In this paper, we present a new framework for homomorphic evaluation of neural networks, that we call FHE-DiNN, whose complexity is strictly linear in the depth of the network and whose parameters can be set beforehand. To obtain this scale-invariance property, we rely heavily on the bootstrapping procedure. We refine the recent FHE construction by Chillotti et al. (ASIACRYPT 2016) in order to increase the message space and apply the sign function (that we use to activate the neurons in the network) during the bootstrapping. We derive some empirical results, using TFHE library as a starting point, and classify encrypted images from the MNIST dataset with more than 96% accuracy in less than 1.7 seconds.

Finally, as a side contribution, we analyze and introduce some variations to the bootstrapping technique of Chillotti et al. that offer an improvement in efficiency at the cost of increasing the storage requirements.

(Joint work with Florian Bourse, Matthias Minihold and Pascal Paillier)

**<a name="AO"></a>Accessing Data While Preserving-Privacy**
*Adam O'Neill* (Georgetown)

End-to-end encryption promises to protect against data leaks and mass surveillance. But how can end-to-end encryption be reconciled with functionality like cloud computing, targeted advertising, and search? This talk will take a look at the specific case of secure outsourced databases, where a client wants to outsource its data storage to an untrusted server, ensuring privacy against the server while maintaining the ability to perform queries. There are a variety of cryptographic solutions proposed to this problem, ranging from those based on deterministic and order-preserving encryption to those based on oblivious RAM or fully-homomorphic encryption. Here we take a step back and identify fundamental "leakage channels" of such protocols, meaning the information leaked to the server about the client's data. We show that if these channels are "exact" then the server can fully reconstruct the client's data in some cases.  We then propose making these channels "noisy" and give some initial protocols in this direction, where the leakage is differentially private.

(Joint work with George Kellaris, George Kollios and Kobbi Nissim)


