---
layout: post
title:  "Mar 18 @ ENS"
author: "Hoeteck"
date:   2019-02-16 10:10:00
---

The next Paris Area Crypto Day will be held on 18.03.2019 (Mon) at
ENS.

* Amphi Jaurès, ENS (29 rue d'Ulm, level B1)
* Please [register](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1N_h57pxPSZmjYiCN5lPUz8XHWGMzZ5Qqnbo97NddhrQ/viewform) (free). Deadline 12.03.2019

### Program

| 10:00&nbsp;-&nbsp;10:05 | Welcome
| 10:05 - 10:50 | [Shweta Agrawal](#SA) Mathematical Assumptions Underlying Code Obfuscation
| 11:10 - 11:55 | [Dennis Hofheinz](#DH) Tight Security
| 12:00 - 14:00 | Lunch 
| 14:05 - 14:50 | [Dario Fiore](#DF) Homomorphic Authentication for Computing Securely on Untrusted Machines
| 15:00 - 15:45 | [Tancrède Lepoint] (#TL) Cryptographic Suite for Algebraic Lattices

**Organizers.** Michel Abdalla, Georg Fuchsbauer, and Hoeteck Wee ([ENS](https://crypto.di.ens.fr/web2py))

**Acknowledgements.** ERC [CryptoCloud](http://www.di.ens.fr/~pointche/CryptoCloud/) and [aSCEND](http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/193658_en.html)

----------------

### Abstracts

**<a name="SA"></a>Mathematical Assumptions Underlying Code Obfuscation**<br>
*Shweta Agrawal* (IIT Madras)

In recent times, there has been significant interest in constructing
the cryptographic primitive of "indistinguishability obfuscation".
Standard cryptographic hardness assumptions appear insufficient for
this task, and we now have a variety of new mathematical conjectures
to fill the gap. I will define the notion of indistinguishability
obfuscation, briefly describe its importance and discuss the new
mathematical conjectures, hard distributions, known attacks and open
problems.

**<a name="DH"></a>Tight security**<br>
*Dennis Hofheinz* (KIT)

A cryptographic building block (such as an encryption or signature scheme) is
called tightly secure if its security reduction is tight, i.e., if its
reduction connects security and underlying assumption in a quantitatively close
way, even in a multi-instance/multi-use scenario. In particular, the security
of a tightly secure scheme should not degrade in the number of instances or
uses of that scheme. This property is beneficial in particular in scenarios in
which it is not clear a priori how many instances of that scheme are used.

In this talk, we survey recent results to achieve tight security, with a focus
on encryption schemes. We explain the intrinsic difficulty to achieve tight
security (e.g., for chosen-ciphertext secure encryption or signatures), and
also showcase techniques to overcome this difficulty.

**<a name="DR"></a>Homomorphic Authentication for Computing Securely on Untrusted Machines**<br>
*Dario Fiore* (IMDEA)

Due to phenomena like the ubiquity of the Internet and cloud computing, it is increasingly common to store and process data on third-party machines. In spite of its attractive aspects, this trend raises a number of security concerns, including: how to ensure that the results computed by third parties are correct (integrity) and no unauthorized information is leaked (privacy)? This talk focuses on cryptographic solutions for integrity, and more specifically on the notion of homomorphic authentication. It presents this notion, gives an overview of the state of the art in this area,  and covers some of the recent efficient constructions.

**<a name="DR"></a>Cryptographic Suite for Algebraic Lattices**<br>
*Tancrède Lepoint* (Google)


